README.md, before:

# ofxFX #

This addons originally born while I was working on [Efecto Mariposa](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/butterfly.html "Efecto Mariposa") and I need to do fast GPU image processing thought GLSL Shaders.

The main goal of this addon it´s to make super easy to use and edit shaders on-the-fly for adding them on your projects.

## ofxFXObject ##
It´s the parent class of all the other effect. If you want to make a new filter it´s better if you start looking at the ```ofxFXObject.h``` in order to see how it works. 

It have a simple structure:

1. Constructor: here it´s necessary to set three vital variables: 
    - passes: the number of passes or itineration of the main ping pong betweens FBO´s  
    - nTextures: number of textures used;
    - internalFormat: if it use GL_RGB, GL_RGBA, GL_RGB16f, GL_RGBA16f, GL_RGB32f, GL_RGBA32f, etc...
    
2. allocate(width,height): This usualy it´s no need to bee re-define. It´s basically allocate the FBO´s and loads the shader by using injectShader();

3. injectShader(): here is where the shaders are loaded. The good stuff comes when you load them on the fly through a string using something like this:

```c++
ofxFXObject fxObject = ofxFXObject();

fxObject.allocate(800,600); // At this point it will load a default timer shader

//Let´s play a little injecting a new one
fxObject.injectShader("#version 120\n\
                    #extension GL_ARB_texture_rectangle : enable\n \
                    uniform float time; \
                    uniform vec2 mouse;\
                    uniform vec2 resolution;\
                    \
                    float pi = 3.141592653589793238462643383279;\
                    \
                    void main( void ) {\
                        float tscale = 2.5;\
                        \
                        vec2 position = gl_FragCoord.xy / resolution.xy;\
                        \
                        float lum   = abs(tan(position.y * pi)) - pi/5.0;\
                        \
                        float red   = sin(position.x * 5.0 + time*tscale*1.00) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        float green = sin(position.x * 8.0 + time*tscale*1.33) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        float blue  = sin(position.x * 2.0 + time*tscale*1.93) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        \
                        gl_FragColor = vec4( vec3( lum + red, lum + green, lum + blue ), 1.0 );\
                    }"); 
```

3. begin(int texN) & end (int texN): remember nTextures variable? you can passthrough information to it by using this end() and begin() and giving the argument the number of texture you want to open. This texture can be access from the shader by the ```uniform sample2DRect tex0``` or ```tex1``` or ```tex2``` and so on. Also you can access to the previous FBO of the ping pong by ```calling uniform sample2DRect backbuffer```. 

4. update(): this is the core of the class, where the magic happens. If you check  for the ```ofxFXObject::update()``` you will see how the tex´s, the backbuffer and other default uniforms variables (time, mouse, resolution) are loaded.

5. draw(): after all you definitely want to look at it.


Also in this class you can found some handy funtion as:

* renderFrame(width,height) makes a frame where the textures could be draw;
* initFbo(ofxFbo, width, height, internalFormat ): it takes the work of allocating and cleaning an FBO.
* ofxSwapBuffer: this is actually a class for making easy dealing with ping-pongs.

Most of the subClass that inherit from ofxFXObject that are part of this add-on are ones that in some point breaks this logic and structure and use just some elements and re-define new ones.

### Copy, Inject & Share ###
The fun part start here. Go to [Ricardo Caballero´s webGL Sandbox](http://mrdoob.com/projects/glsl_sandbox/) or [ShaderToy by Inigo Quilez](http://www.iquilezles.org/apps/shadertoy/) found an effect that you like. Copy the code. Inject it and compile.
Explore new changes and share them.

Note: it´s important to makes all the changes for openGL version 1.2 using ARB Rect textures

## Examples ##

Watch some of this classes in action [HERE](http://www.patriciogonzalezvivo.com/blog/?p=488)

![ofxFlocking](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/flock.png) ![ofxFluid](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/fluid.png) ![ofxGlow](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/oldTv.png) ![ofxGrayScott](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/grayScott.png) ![ofxWater](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/water.png)

Commit message:

More and more shaders from webGL sandbox

README.md, after:

![ofxFlocking](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/flock.png) ![ofxFluid](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/fluid.png) ![ofxGlow](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/oldTv.png) ![ofxGrayScott](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/grayScott.png) ![ofxWater](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/images/water.png)

# ofxFX #

This addons originally born while I was working on [Efecto Mariposa](http://patriciogonzalezvivo.com/butterfly.html "Efecto Mariposa") and I need to do fast GPU image processing thought GLSL Shaders.

The main goal of this addon it´s to make super easy to use and edit shaders on-the-fly for adding them on your projects.

## ofxFXObject ##
It´s the parent class of all the other effect. If you want to make a new filter it´s better if you start looking at the ```ofxFXObject.h``` in order to see how it works. 

It have a simple structure:

1. Constructor: here it´s necessary to set three vital variables: 
    - passes: the number of passes or itineration of the main ping pong betweens FBO´s  
    - nTextures: number of textures used;
    - internalFormat: if it use GL_RGB, GL_RGBA, GL_RGB16f, GL_RGBA16f, GL_RGB32f, GL_RGBA32f, etc...
    
2. allocate(width,height): This usualy it´s no need to bee re-define. It´s basically allocate the FBO´s and loads the shader by using injectShader();

3. injectShader(): here is where the shaders are loaded. The good stuff comes when you load them on the fly through a string using something like this:

```c++
ofxFXObject fxObject = ofxFXObject();

fxObject.allocate(800,600); // At this point it will load a default timer shader

//Let´s play a little injecting a new one
fxObject.injectShader("#version 120\n\
                    #extension GL_ARB_texture_rectangle : enable\n \
                    uniform float time; \
                    uniform vec2 mouse;\
                    uniform vec2 resolution;\
                    \
                    float pi = 3.141592653589793238462643383279;\
                    \
                    void main( void ) {\
                        float tscale = 2.5;\
                        \
                        vec2 position = gl_FragCoord.xy / resolution.xy;\
                        \
                        float lum   = abs(tan(position.y * pi)) - pi/5.0;\
                        \
                        float red   = sin(position.x * 5.0 + time*tscale*1.00) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        float green = sin(position.x * 8.0 + time*tscale*1.33) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        float blue  = sin(position.x * 2.0 + time*tscale*1.93) * 2.0 - 1.0;\
                        \
                        gl_FragColor = vec4( vec3( lum + red, lum + green, lum + blue ), 1.0 );\
                    }"); 
```

3. begin(int texN) & end (int texN): remember nTextures variable? you can passthrough information to it by using this end() and begin() and giving the argument the number of texture you want to open. This texture can be access from the shader by the ```uniform sample2DRect tex0``` or ```tex1``` or ```tex2``` and so on. Also you can access to the previous FBO of the ping pong by calling ```uniform sample2DRect backbuffer```. 

4. update(): this is the core of the class, where the magic happens. If you check  for the ```ofxFXObject::update()``` you will see how the tex´s, the backbuffer and other default uniforms variables (time, mouse, resolution) are loaded.

5. draw(): after all you definitely want to look at it.


Also in this class you can found some handy funtion as:

* renderFrame(width,height) makes a frame where the textures could be draw;
* initFbo(ofxFbo, width, height, internalFormat ): it takes the work of allocating and cleaning an FBO.
* ofxSwapBuffer: this is actually a class for making easy dealing with ping-pongs.

Most of the subClass that inherit from ofxFXObject that are part of this add-on are ones that in some point breaks this logic and structure and use just some elements and re-define new ones.

### Copy, Inject & Share ###
The fun part start here. Go to [Ricardo Caballero´s webGL Sandbox](http://mrdoob.com/projects/glsl_sandbox/) or [ShaderToy by Inigo Quilez](http://www.iquilezles.org/apps/shadertoy/) found an effect that you like. Copy the code. Inject it and compile.
Explore new changes and share them.

Note: it´s important to makes all the changes for openGL version 1.2 using ARB Rect textures

## ofxFXObject extensions ##

This are the subclases of ofxFXObject that share part of the structure and need more variables or shaders. This sometimes are complex or just it´s more handy to have them separated.

# Examples #
Watch some of this classes in action [HERE](http://www.patriciogonzalezvivo.com/blog/?p=488)
